Initial PR for the documentation refactoring (#791)
huggingface/optimum-neuron: docs/source/model_doc/diffusers/lora.mdx

Reviewer: In my opinion it is better suited for an "advanced usage" section under the Stable Diffusion model page. to keep visibility on this it could also be replicated in a how to section (how to fine tune and deploy a LoRA model)?

Author: not sure for that tho, diffusers is having an independent page for LoRA and controlnet, and I think the idea of this refactoring is that when people searching for "LoRA" and "huggingface", they can see Optimum Neuron doc from their searching engine, so better to have a page for those highly searched terms.

Reviewer: understood!

<!---
Copyright 2025 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Load adapters

There are several training techniques for personalizing diffusion models to generate images of a specific subject or images in certain styles. Each of these training methods produces a different type of adapter. Some of the adapters generate an entirely new model, while other adapters only modify a smaller set of embeddings or weights. This means the loading process for each adapter is also different.

This guide will show you how to load LoRA weights.

## LoRA

> Low-Rank Adaptation is fast way to Stable Diffusion to adapt styles of generated images. In Optimum Neuron, we support using one or multiple LoRA adapters by fusing their parameters into the original parameters of the text encoder(s) and the unet during the compilation. Here below is an example of compiling stable diffusion models with LoRA adapters of your choice and using the compiled artifacts to generate styled images:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Low-Rank Adaptation is the fastest way for Stable Diffusion to adapt the styles of the generated images. In Optimum Neuron, we support using one or multiple LoRA adapters by fusing their parameters into the original parameters of the text encoder(s) and the unet during the compilation. Here below is an example of compiling stable diffusion models with LoRA adapters of your choice and using the compiled artifacts to generate styled images:
```
